greetings one and all laszlo Montgomery
hair today in this episode of China
history podcast I'm making good on my
past promises about not necessarily
going in any particular order of topics
we're going to go into the Wayback
Machine about two thousand one hundred
and fifty years to the Western Han
Dynasty the Han Dynasty as you'll no
doubt all recall began with Leo bong and
the true Han contention the true ha Jung
Jung in 206 bc Leo bang defeats young
you and kicks off the Han Dynasty that
is divided up into the western and
eastern time periods with Wang mang and
the sheen dynasty in the middle the
Western Han ran for a good couple
centuries ending an 8 ad as the Western
Han ends and Wang mang sets up his brief
Ching dynasty Augustus Caesar is raining
in all his glory in Rome in these two
great civilizations Rome and China have
no relations and no one's ever met the
other about halfway through the Western
Han we have one of the greatest of the
great Emperors of China Hangul deep he
was one of those occasional Emperor's
who not only rained for a good half
century from 141 287 BC but did some
great things to we discussed hon wu d in
the han dynasty part 2 podcast i devoted
maybe a minute to this person who were
going to look at today we're going to
zoom in today and take a closer look at
one of the greatest adventurers of all
time Jung Jin he's one of China's
national heroes from ancient times in
his story although we only know bits and
pieces is really an amazing epic now a
lot of what I'm mentioning today came
straight out of Samadhi ends Sergey are
records of the grand historian samat
shin was a contemporary of john chen i
would think the account semaj end gives
to us in his records of the grand
historian about the adventures and the
impact of John Chen's travel
those are probably pretty accurate the
reason well one of the reasons I find
John chin so interesting is they have
besides having the guts or the
fearlessness to wander out into the
great unknown he also acted as a kind of
catalyst to join two great parts of the
world that is China and the dominant
city states that were scattered
throughout Central Asia with Jung Jin we
can get a perfect example of how one
single human beings exploits can really
have a great historic impact our story
takes place in what we call before the
Common Era or before Christ these are
still bc times and the world is huge it
takes a long time to get to wherever you
want to go in these days and the Han
Dynasty people are still walking or
riding animals to get to wherever they
want to go civilizations have been
developing in Europe India all over
Africa and in Egypt of course but China
didn't know about any of these guys so
you can see why those and hang on might
believe China was the Middle Kingdom if
you recall anything at all from the
earlier podcasts from the imperial
dynasty overviews China from the
beginning of recorded history until well
some like say even to this day but in
any case historically the Han Chinese
and all those who lived within China
proper always had the mental stress of
all those Central Asian people who lived
on every side of them from the Northeast
all the way west and then draping down
to the south it was like one thick heavy
blanket that said on top of China
beginning just on the northern side of
the Great Wall we tend to come on eyes
these people i know i have vastly
oversimplified them call them step
people or people of the steps you heard
the word shonu Mongol Manchu church and
Tonga these people live this nomadic
tribal life probably not much different
than the people who are living in these
lands today 20 150 years ago I'm willing
to
that there are a lot of traditions and
cultural aspects of these people of
these Central Asian lands that were the
same or similar back in the times of
Jung shin he was the first Han Chinese
who wandered out of the safety comfort
of Cheong on the Han capital and now the
lovely city of Xian and followed a path
that ultimately became known as the Silk
Road and lived amongst the young new for
a decade traveled throughout Xinjiang
Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan Uzbekistan he's
not as famous in the West as Lewis and
Clark Magellan Columbus Leif Ericson or
Ponce de Leon but he was no less
adventurous he was the perfect man for
the job he managed to talk his way out
of many a tight spot and was most likely
extremely sensitive to the cultural
differences of those he encountered
chang chen was effective on many levels
like i said he had the guts to take on
such an adventure as this and he had the
innate skills of diplomacy and human
sensitivities that allowed him to make a
connection he was able to effectively
communicate his adventures to his
countrymen when he returned in the
information he brought back sparked a
mini economic revolution of sorts with
the establishment of the Silk Road when
the Emperor Han rule d selected Jung
Chen to go do his bidding he definitely
chose wisely chang chen was born not too
far away from xi'an in what is now the
environments of Han Jung down in the
southwest portion of shaanxi he was just
another trained and educated gentleman
who came to chang on to make a career
for himself he served as a palace
attendant to emperor wu from 140 to 135
b.c emperor wu of course being Conde
hyung was the dynasty was his regnal
name and deep of course means Emperor
several show new soldiers had been
captured by Han Chinese and the
information they revealed during
interrogations said that their people
the show new had defeated the thought
gee r dot means great
so these were the great unit Jarrod
people they have been identified as the
Kushan people or thus if Ian's the
Kushan had their own Empire in the first
century AD they populated the area
around Bactria which historically was
the eastern edge of Iran but now it's
part of Afghanistan anyways prior to
being pushed out of their turf around
Don Juan and all along the Gansu Ching
hai border around there they had just
gone down in defeat to the show new from
Mongolia and their King had been killed
and these captured show new revealed
their King had used the you a jerk came
skull as a drinking vessel from which to
drink wine so it was here that hon wu d
and his closest advisors pondered the
opportunities if they could somehow find
out where the yetzer had gone and forge
an alliance with them surely these
people would jump at the chance to seek
vengeance and team up with Han China to
get revenge against the genre these Huns
as the show knew were also referred to
had been a thorn in the side of the
Chinese for longer than anyone could
recall so they were anxious to push
these guys as far back as possible and
so it was that after no doubt careful
selection process Jung Jin was chosen as
the emissary of Han will d to venture
out is surreptitiously as possible
through show new territory and onto the
usurer to speak with their king's son
discuss the Alliance and then the plan
essentially called for the future to
attack from the west and Han China would
attack from the east and the Xiang Lu
would be caught in the middle and if all
went according to plan they would go
down in defeat and this existential
threat would be gone once and for all so
John Chen set out in 138 bc with 100 men
and his loyal translator gun fool who
was a show new slave and spoke the
necessary languages of the region's
multiple sources I used all noted that
gun foo being a sean nuinn all was a
skilled Archer
brought down plenty of game for the
traveling party the path they set out on
was probably just a dirt path there were
no paved or marked roads that led you
from China proper to the western regions
they traveled probably about three miles
per hour and covered perhaps 25 miles
per day the road from Chung on West was
more or less the same as the roads today
zhang chen and his party would have to
ferry across the yellow river at lon cho
in gansu from there they would probably
have taken the path that rimmed the
Taklamakan desert and way out here was
already the western frontier the wild
west of the Han Empire not long after
they set out west once they were well
inside Zhang new territory they were
captured in 137 bc and taken before the
Shan you or Chon you as they called
their supreme leader their lives were
spared but they were held as captives
according to the records of the grand
historian the Chaon you asked John Chen
what's the big idea with the Han Emperor
sending an envoy across my lands to talk
to my enemy would he like it if i sent a
show new envoy to talk to the yet people
down in the south of China the year were
they were an independent people down in
the south of China who had not yet been
taken into the Han fold and constantly
raiding the southern fringes of the
Empire and so it was John Chen and his
men were held captive for 10 years not
much is written about this period of
captivity amongst the Xiang Yu except
that John Chen was given a wife by the
Chaon you and with her he had a son and
together they lived until the time when
the show new had more or less given up
watching him and treating him like a
prisoner zhang chen and his men plan
their escape and one day they departed
in 127 bc and continued on their journey
to meet up with the yet juror and send
the message from han will d about the
proposed alliance John Chen dared not
returned to Chung on and
here before hangul d empty-handed a
month after leaving John Chen arrived
and dyin and met with the King there
died again aka fergana was one of the
three most powerful kingdoms of Central
Asia at that time you also had the Greco
Bach trends down in the south and the
Parthian Xin the west and what is today
northern Iran so the ugur are now
occupying the Fergana Valley which
spreads through is Becca Stan Kyrgyzstan
and Tajikistan they spoke indo-european
languages and had strong Greek
influences the meeting between Jung chin
and the diagram people marked the first
time China had come in contact with any
of these people speaking these
indo-european languages and from this
meeting Jung Jin later reported to the
Emperor that quote Dagon this is very
indicative for the kind of Intel he
would send back in his report or that he
brought back in his report da un lies
southwest of the territory of the show
new some 10,000 Lee directly west of
China alley is about one third of a mile
the people are also settled on the land
plowing the fields and growing rice and
wheat they also make wine out of grapes
the region has many fine horses which
sweat blood John Chen Harry's talking
about these horses that apparently due
to skin parasites cause these sores to
bleed anyway continuing on their
forebears are supposed to have been fold
from heavenly horses the people live in
houses and fortified cities there being
some 70 or more cities of various sizes
in the region the population numbers
several hundred thousand the people
fight with bows and spares and can shoot
from horseback diegan is bordered on the
north by kangju and the west by the
kingdom of Dodger on the south west by
Tashia which it was bactria and on the
north east by the land of the wool swim
and on the east by the you me and you
Tim now John Chen spoke to the king of
diagram and learned that the King had
long
wish to establish relations with the hon
Emperor John Chen told him get him some
guides and whatnot and lead him to the
kingdom of the uture where he could pass
on his message and when he got back to
Chun on he would personally tell the
Emperor he had a friend and I grin so he
was given the necessary wherewithal to
continue his journey and he soon met
with the son of the slain you enter King
in his stronghold in the grasslands of
what is now present day use Becca Stan
the ugur had also taken control of the
lands around bactria and much too young
Chen's disappointment the new king there
wasn't very enthusiastic about an
alliance with the Han since they were so
far away and furthermore they had no
intention or desire to seek revenge
against the show new for they have
alleged insult of drinking wine from the
Kings skull anyway John Chen lingered in
the region a while for about a year it
said lingering mostly in the parts
that's today northern Afghanistan hoping
the unit your chieftain would change his
mind about that alliance with the hon I
imagine what John Chen saw in the light
2nd century BC and what you might see
today trekking through the mountainous
regions where Afghanistan borders
tajikistan be pretty much the same these
were lands visited by Alexander the
Great and no doubt John Chen had seen
some of the Greek culture that
alexander's armies had brought with them
to the area and then with all these
years of observations and intelligence
start up he begins to head back to China
to sort of report into the head office I
don't know if the imperial court had
given up or if they assumed he had
perished trying to carry out this
dangerous mission rather than skirt the
north of the tarim basin Jung Jin his
wife and his trusty slave gong boo took
the southerly route of the vast basin
which 2,000 years later would be where
China would test its atomic and hydrogen
bombs but wouldn't you know it as he was
tiptoeing through show new territory on
his way back to China he was captured
again but this time is captivity lasted
only
year before he was able to escape thanks
to the confusion created by the death of
the Chaon you at the time and 126 bc and
so 13 or so years after he left jong
shin returns to the palace and
regurgitates everything he had learned
throughout the period of his amazing
journey one of the many important
discoveries made concerned a market
chung chien had seen in the buck trian
city of Lana shirt there he had noticed
that in this vast market their cloth
that he recognized as having come from
somewhere in the southwest near su chuan
was on sale and seemed to be very highly
prized by the merchants after a few
inquiries Jong chin learned that the
cloth had come all the way from India
for this reason John figured the
southern route that began in Sichuan was
a safer and more reliable route to the
lands of Central Asia than the northern
route he had taken much earlier John
noted that there now existed proof of
some trade routes that carried this
commodity from China to India and then
north to the markets of Central Asia oh
if I could have been a fly on the wall
as John chance at there in the palace
and Chung on and regale hon wu d of all
the wonders he had seen his approximate
6,000 miles of travels yielded tales of
peoples and customs from faraway lands
he reported for example that in what is
today northern India people wrote
elephants into battle many of these
stories were just downright fantastical
besides the diplomatic opportunities
that now presented themselves the
Emperor thought about this valuable
information concerning how prized
Chinese goods were in all of these lands
the economic opportunities were
boundless and to facilitate all this
secure trade routes had to be
established what we know is the Silk
Road existed actually long before the
han dynasty made it famous the only
problem with the Silk Road up till now
is that the show new control
they were hardly dependable hospitable
and friendly they were always battles
raging or some sort of disturbance along
the route that made it a very perilous
journey indeed but trade back then was
more or less nickel and dime individual
adventurers traders who carried with
them all they could and sought out the
markets found there and got ensued ching
hai xin zhang and beyond dead men tell
no tales and little is known about the
trade that flourished along the Silk
Road prior to Han now it was a
completely different ballgame now the
Emperor was armed with the knowledge
that vast markets existed to the west in
lands he had only just learned about not
only were there whole civilizations just
like China beyond the fringes of the
Emperor but even beyond those lands
existed other people and everyone seemed
to hold Chinese goods and high esteem
and value now it became imperative to
deal with the show no problem once and
for all and secure these trade routes
fergie vast armies of traders to ply
their wares in both directions of the
Silk Road from west to east as well as
from east to west besides all that
alliances were going to be the key to
projecting China's power and might
beyond the western regions of China what
was going to be the next move up till
now the Chinese imperial government had
still been using the old coaching system
to keep peace with Xiang Lu this went
back to Leo pang pang ghalsuu founder of
the Han Dynasty he had suffered an
ignominious defeated by dung in 200 BC
the Python Georgian saw huncle to invade
Xiang Newlands only to sound Lee
defeated the Emperor himself narrowly
missed being captured the upshot of all
this was that in order to keep the peace
the Hun court agreed to send a hun
princess to the Chandu as well as other
tribute items such as silk rice wine
this her chin system was kept up until
now now the mighty hannibal
d felt that they could give up this
coaching system and seek a military
solution instead but alliances needed to
be built up first and now hon wu d knew
there were plenty of kings out there to
the west who sought relations with the
great Han Empire in China as for our
hero John Chen his career sort of peaked
here I liken him to lee Hong Chung and
that he was a big hero and received lots
of honors and then in the second part of
his life it was sort of a up and down
kind of a thing he was made a mark whis
and given a honorary title and sent on
two expeditions to deal with the show
new in one of the critical battles of
this first expedition he was sent on the
Han army suffered a bitter defeat and it
was found that this loss was due to Jung
shin and his army failing to meet at the
rendezvous point as per the plan and
once this was learned jongshin's honours
were all stripped from him and he was
demoted to commoner status this penalty
was a reprieve from the original
sentence of death that he had been given
but he was able to buy his way out later
that year the brave general watchu Bing
led his forces against the show new and
defeated them soundly in 119 bc they
defeated them again and kicked the show
new out of china proper and far deep
into the gobi desert and the show new at
last had been dealt with him had been
cleared from the area around the Silk
Road now the Han Dynasty had a direct
and unobstructed route to the west into
Central Asia the Silk Road was safe and
could be protected trade was now going
to flourish like never before in history
up till that point with all this trade
and wealth created with it would bring
about all kinds of benefits to the
economies of well everybody involved
cities would spring up along these
routes that are still around today on
this second and last journey in 122 bc
the Emperor sent John Chen on a
diplomatic mission this time the first
one being that military disaster
he was to make a deal with Quinn more
the king of the woman people who had
successfully broken away from the show
new and established their own Kingdom
around the region north of xinjiang and
east of the you at jerk kingdom the idea
called for a massive amount of gifts to
be offered to be loose when the gifts
were presented as an incentive for the
loose one to spread out to fill the
vacuum to the West that had been created
by the vacated shondo once they did this
the rest of the plan called for
overtures to be made to the DA kingdom
the dash a kingdom was the region around
bactria the imperial court had chung anh
reckoned if they could conclude treaties
with these two great powers all of the
other power centers big and small would
all beat a path to chang on to declare
themselves vassals to the son of heaven
so the Emperor calls up John Chen again
to service and puts him in charge of 300
men John leads the party to Qin mo king
of the one and this King prostrates
himself before the Emperor's
representative and declares himself a
vassal state of the Han but when John
Chen tells him to move out and take over
those vacated lands of the show knew
they were not so willing to do this they
feared these Han Chinese they were so
far away in the show knew they were so
close if they ever came back they'd have
a bigger problem than ever on their
hands the who soon also didn't know the
extent of the Han Chinese might so John
Chen walked away empty-handed in Wu
swoon besides King Qin mo had just
suffered a huge internal crisis in his
kingdom with his sons and grandsons and
their proxies all fighting for control
so it wasn't really a good time when Jon
Chinn showed up and tried to cut a deal
with them now came the time to visit all
the various kingdoms to the west in the
heart of Central Asia this included da
jie dian kangju Dodger and shi Shan do
you TN and you Maud these are the
Mandarin names of these regions
he didn't get the treaty with the one
but they did provide him and his man
with plenty of guides interpreters and
support to you know get to all these
other states when John Chen returned
from this journey he came to Chung on
with a couple dozen envoys from loose
one who brought with them a vast number
of horses presented to the Emperor in
exchange for all these gifts and for the
first time these woo Sun people got to
see up close the greatness and the might
of Han China at its peak John Chen he
had a happy ending and was made one of
the nine most powerful ministers in the
government with the honorific title of
Grand messenger and then that's about it
about a year after his name is restored
he dies in 114 bc the Emperor hon wu d
is still raining and Chung on at this
time then the cherry on top to this
whole happy ending for John Chen was
this the one invoice having seen how
great and mighty China was went back to
their lands and passed on all this
information and so it was that there was
a friendship treaty made and remember
John Chen sent all these envoys outs to
other lands far to the west he didn't
accompany them they just sort of went
out by themselves and they you know had
spread out to the west and southwest
towards what is now no parts of modern
day Iran and Afghanistan all of these
kingdoms sent their representatives to
the court of hung Moody and relations
were then established for the first time
between China and these near and also
distant lands and about fifty sixty
years after John Chen's death the
traffic along these corridors he had
been the first to explore brought
something called Buddhism to China via
India Central Asia the introduction of
Buddhism into China was one of the
immediate after effects of Jung Chan's
travels and within a decade or two after
jongshin's second journey you found
Chinese silks and Roman markets for the
first time and although Jung shin had
passed from the scene no one could doubt
the role he played as the tireless
adventurer and canny diplomats who
was able to deal face-to-face man-to-man
with some of the most fierce people of
their day and he won their respect and
laid the groundwork for all the
Alliance's that followed between China
of the western han dynasty and all the
various kingdoms and states north and
west of xin zhang and tibet that's about
it he lived a long long life living well
into his 80s and he packed a lot of
adventure into a life well-lived and I'm
going to end it right here if you don't
mind I thank you for downloading and
listening this is laszlo Montgomery once
again coming to you from the China
history podcast com we'll see you next
week I hope for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast take care
everyone and I hope everyone's summer is
off to a great start